README.md, before:

# Modern Settings

A SwiftUI package that brings a more modern settings window to macOS. The current SwiftUI settings window is still in an older style. This package matches the post Ventura Settings.

![Sample Modern Settings Window](Resources/sample_settings.png)

## Localization

This package includes localization for 40 languages, this localization is used for the "Settings…" button that appears in your app's menu bar.

> This is the same level of localization that is available from the default SwiftUI Settings Window.

## Sample Code

To create a Modern Settings window, use the `ModernSettings` scene within your Main App. Within your Settings view, use a `NavigationSplitView` with a locked sidebar. To lock the sidebar, use the `lockSidebar` modifier on the main view within your sidebar.

```swift
@main
struct TextEditor: App {
    var body: some Scene {
        ModernSettings() {
            SettingsController()
        }
    }
}

struct SettingsController: View {
    var body: some View {
       NavigationSplitView {
           List {
               ForEach(0..<10) { i in
                   Text("index: \(i)")
               }
           }
           .lockSidebar()
       } detail: {
           Text("My Settings")
       }
   }
}
```

### Locked Sidebar

To mimic other Modern macOS settings, the sidebar of the SettingsController needs to be locked. This can be done using the `.lockSidebar` modifier. This removes the sidebar toggle button, as well as locking it to a specific width.

```swift
struct SettingsController: View {
    var body: some View {
       NavigationSplitView {
            MySidebar()
                .lockSidebar(width: 250)
       } detail: {
           MyDetail()
       }
   }
}
```

#### Implementation Note

Modern macOS settings prevent the `NavigationSplitView's` sidebar from being collapsed. This is seemingly done through a private API. To get around this, ModernSettings uses a modifier, `lockSidebar` within the `NavigationSplitView`. This removes the toggle button and locking the width. To prevent the drag gesture on the sidebar, `NSplitView:canCollapse` is swizzled by the `ModernSettings` scene. This swizzling stops the sidebar from being collapse through any methods, which matches the behavior in Settings & Xcode.

### Open Settings Window Programmatically

Like the built in SwiftUI `Settings` window, `ModernSettings` supports programmatic opening of the window. This can be accomplished using the `openModernSettings` environment variable: 

```swift
struct OpenSettingsButton: View {
    @Environment(\.openModernSettings) private var openModernSettings
    
    var body: some View {
        Button("Open App Settings") {
            openModernSettings()
        }
    }
}
```

### Change Settings Window Shortcut

To change the shortcut to open the `ModernSettings` window, you can use the `settingsShortcut` modifier.

For example, you can change the keyboard shortcut to `cmd + shift + ,`:

```swift
@main
struct TextEditor: App {
    var body: some Scene {
        ModernSettings() {
            SettingsController()
                 .settingsShortcut(",", [.command, .shift])
        }
    }
}
```

## Credits

The swizzling solution for disabling `NSplitView:canCollapse` was inspired by the [Ice app](https://github.com/jordanbaird/Ice/blob/11edd39115f3f43a83ae114b5348df6a0e1741cf/Ice/Swizzling/NSSplitViewItem%2BswizzledCanCollapse.swift).

Commit message:

Add information about the generator
Signed-off-by: Taylor Lineman <git@actuallytaylor.com>

README.md, after:

# Modern Settings

A SwiftUI package that brings a more modern settings window to macOS. The current SwiftUI settings window is still in an older style. This package matches the post Ventura Settings.

![Sample Modern Settings Window](Resources/sample_settings.png)

## Localization

This package includes localization for 40 languages, this localization is used for the "Settings…" button that appears in your app's menu bar.

> This is the same level of localization that is available from the default SwiftUI Settings Window. See  `Sources/Tools/LocalizedSettingsNameGenerator` for the generation code for localization.

## Sample Code

To create a Modern Settings window, use the `ModernSettings` scene within your Main App. Within your Settings view, use a `NavigationSplitView` with a locked sidebar. To lock the sidebar, use the `lockSidebar` modifier on the main view within your sidebar.

```swift
@main
struct TextEditor: App {
    var body: some Scene {
        ModernSettings() {
            SettingsController()
        }
    }
}

struct SettingsController: View {
    var body: some View {
       NavigationSplitView {
           List {
               ForEach(0..<10) { i in
                   Text("index: \(i)")
               }
           }
           .lockSidebar()
       } detail: {
           Text("My Settings")
       }
   }
}
```

### Locked Sidebar

To mimic other Modern macOS settings, the sidebar of the SettingsController needs to be locked. This can be done using the `.lockSidebar` modifier. This removes the sidebar toggle button, as well as locking it to a specific width.

```swift
struct SettingsController: View {
    var body: some View {
       NavigationSplitView {
            MySidebar()
                .lockSidebar(width: 250)
       } detail: {
           MyDetail()
       }
   }
}
```

#### Implementation Note

Modern macOS settings prevent the `NavigationSplitView's` sidebar from being collapsed. This is seemingly done through a private API. To get around this, ModernSettings uses a modifier, `lockSidebar` within the `NavigationSplitView`. This removes the toggle button and locking the width. To prevent the drag gesture on the sidebar, `NSplitView:canCollapse` is swizzled by the `ModernSettings` scene. This swizzling stops the sidebar from being collapse through any methods, which matches the behavior in Settings & Xcode.

### Open Settings Window Programmatically

Like the built in SwiftUI `Settings` window, `ModernSettings` supports programmatic opening of the window. This can be accomplished using the `openModernSettings` environment variable: 

```swift
struct OpenSettingsButton: View {
    @Environment(\.openModernSettings) private var openModernSettings
    
    var body: some View {
        Button("Open App Settings") {
            openModernSettings()
        }
    }
}
```

### Change Settings Window Shortcut

To change the shortcut to open the `ModernSettings` window, you can use the `settingsShortcut` modifier.

For example, you can change the keyboard shortcut to `cmd + shift + ,`:

```swift
@main
struct TextEditor: App {
    var body: some Scene {
        ModernSettings() {
            SettingsController()
                 .settingsShortcut(",", [.command, .shift])
        }
    }
}
```

## Credits

The swizzling solution for disabling `NSplitView:canCollapse` was inspired by the [Ice app](https://github.com/jordanbaird/Ice/blob/11edd39115f3f43a83ae114b5348df6a0e1741cf/Ice/Swizzling/NSSplitViewItem%2BswizzledCanCollapse.swift).
